>> Kyle Simpson: So let's take a look
at the spec for the ++ operator and
in this case, the postfix operator,
since that's the one in question.
You'll notice that it is written out,
and most of the spec is this way.
It is written out in the sorta
numbered algorithmic format.
The good news is you're developers,
and developers read and
write algorithms all day long.
So while there are certainly some
challenging parts to jumping into
the spec, and I don't wanna wash over
that the spec is just immediate,
it's easy reading.
That definitely takes work.
But while there are certainly
things that can be challenging
about reading the specification, even
just reading these couple of snippets,
these five items in this bool list,
there's a very straightforward
algorithm for determining what to do.
Now the reasons behind the algorithm
are an entirely different topic.
And whether it's consistent with other
algorithms is a totally separate topic.
But if we wanna understand
what the ++ operator is doing,
predict it and avoid problems.
The only way to do that is to
understand what it's gonna do.
And I don't know of any other way of doing
that than understanding its algorithm.
So in a sense, this whole course is
really trying to help you to understand
the algorithms, the DNA of JavaScript.
Why would I wanna do that?
It's because I want you to be
more effective as a developer.
I think one of the things that creates
the biggest roadblock to our effectiveness
as developers is that we code without
really knowing what we're doing and
then we hope that we don't
run into a bug as a result.
It's interesting to me,
I've ask this question and
I've only ever gotten one
answer that made any sense.
Can you name any profession where
essentially you're a professional guesser?
The JavaScript developers and
in fact developers on a lot of senses but
especially JavaScript developers,
isn't it true that we don't really know
why the code's working,
it just seems to be working right now.
And it at the moment fits whatever mental
model we have artificially constructed.
Like I constructed the X equals X plus
one, which is reasonable by the way.
I'm not suggesting if that's your mental
model that you're weird for thinking that,
it's reasonable, but we artificially
construct these mental models, and
it seems to work, and so we say,
I hope the test suite passes.
Can you imagine an architect of this
building saying, I hope the walls stay up,
and I hope the roof stays on?
Let's put people in it and
see how it works.
Let's run the tests and see how it works.
I don't know of any other way of
developing a confidence over your code.
But it's what I'm striving towards, to be
able to understand what the code is doing.
And right here in this particular spec,
it tells us exactly what happens.
It grabs the old value and
does the two number operation on it.
It turns it from whatever
it is into a number.
And we're gonna talk about that two number
that's called an abstract operation.
We're gonna get into that in this course.
But I want you to be able to
be comfortable enough that,
if you didn't understand something,
you could check MDN.
But guess what?
MDN is not always [LAUGH] right.
I fixed problems on MDN
on a regular basis.
So if there's something that you're seeing
that's not matching what you're reading,
there's really only one place to go and
it's the spec.
If I were to try to translate that
specification into some kind of
JavaScript code that we could maybe
better understand, it's basically this,
that the ++ is like a function.
It's an operator, but it's like
a function that takes the original X.
And right there on line 4,
it coerces it to a number.
And it returns that original
number after having updated it
with the increment of one.
So this is an illustration of
having a more clear mental model,
and the only way that I got
that was reading this back.
I saw something that I
expected to have happen.
It didn't happen, and
I noticed that's my lack of understanding,
I have the wrong mental model.
And there's one way to solve that,
read the spec.
Whenever there is a divergence between
what your brain thinks and what is
actually happening in the computer,
that's where bugs enter the code.
And that's really what I'm getting at, the
thing that causes you to be frustrated as
a developer is that bugs happen in
unexpected ways and I think one of
the most common ways that bugs enter
is we have the incorrect thinking,
the incorrect mental model.
We're thinking something but then it's
a divergent to what we're thinking and
what the computer's doing and
that's when the bug enters the code.
I mean yes, there are bugs
that happen because you just
accidentally type two instead of three.
That happens.
I'm not suggesting that all bugs are this
way, but I think that the predominant set
of bugs that occur is because
we're thinking one thing and
something else is actually happening.
You're gonna hear a lot
throughout this course,
but this is one of those sayings that
I will repeat on a regular basis, and
people like to refer to
these as getify's laws.
So I went ahead and
just started numbering them.
So this is getify's law number 17, when
there's a divergence between your brain
and the computer that's where
the bug enters the code.